---
layout: post
title: "Dreams Do Come True"
subtitle: 
excerpt: ""
image: "/img/Bàn tay che trời.jpeg"
show-avatar: true
category: Tản mạn
tags: ["Tản mạn một thoáng nhìn"]
comments: true
googlefonts: ["Share+Tech+Mono"]
---

“After the war, without bringing peace, it is only the meaningless battle.” It is my country’s battle when people after a war have to live in poverty and unjustness. When the North came to the South, almost everyone in the South had to move and cross over the border. Last month, I talked to Mr. Viet, the old man who had to cross thousands of miles of danger to escape the communist regime. “It really was the battle for living. Not only on the battlefield but I had to fight for every moment of life because everything changed and I also had to adapt to it,” he said. Indeed, the way to heaven always has a lot of arduousness not only in his but also in people’s lives.
On April 28, 1975, the bombs exploded violently! Viet was ten years old and running around his house trying to hold onto his emotion. His father had just made the decision to move out from Saigon because his army was losing the battle and the city was falling. Viet ran around not for pleasure but for fear mixed excitement. “We will go to America,” his daddy said. “Not today but very soon.” He looked at his children and gazed at his wife wishing that she could sympathize with his decision. Viet didn’t know what the others were thinking about, but he imagined that America is a beautiful place and most importantly, it is safe. He wanted to get out of Saigon because you could get shot anytime. But deep inside, he didn’t want to go because he had a lot of friends and toys. If he had to go, it meant that he could lose it all. Viet stopped at the corner of the house and tried to take something out under his bed. Suddenly, he turned his head and said, “Could I bring my toys, Daddy?” His father agreed and ran out from the house.
On April 29, 1975, the life of Saigon could be counted by the hour. Luxurious Saigon was now a mess. There were bodies everywhere and broken buildings. Nobody could find SaiGon’s face of a year ago. Heaven was fallen. Citizens of Saigon flee to the sea and the over borders as fast as they can. “Move, move, move…” this sound rang out throughout the whole city. Viet left his refuge under the ground of his house. He ran with all his might to his house. He was afraid of that he could die by thousands of bullets if he was not fast enough. “Take only what we need. We will go tonight” his father said to his family. Their belongings were only clothing and some gold, they had accumulated from his parents’ marriage. Only Viet tried to grab everything that he had. He considered what was the best choice, his dragon pillows or a big bear made out of cotton. He pushed all of his things into a big bag and dragged it along his house to collect as much as he can do. Bombs still exploded outside, and inside the house was silent. The day was passing and the night was coming. His father came to the house, “We’re going. We cannot stay any longer because Saigon is gone.” Viet followed his brother on the pathway directed to the sea. They threw everything on the boat and his father rowed during the night.
Time was not calculated by seconds but by days. His family had to stay on the small boat for 9 days until they saw the relief ship. Hungry and thirsty, they did all kinds of signal to make the ship know their existence. They picked up the whole family onto the ship and gave them food and water. The ship docked in Thailand. Everybody left the ship and entered the refugee camp to wait for immigration. “Camp was not a time for camping. There was no fun, no enjoyment because we had to fight for our life.” Mr. Viet said about that time. “There were hard times when they didn’t have enough food for us. We found that we had just escaped from one hell and entered another. The only difference was that we got safety and needn’t run and hide. We lived day by day and grabbed food from others. A month after, I decided to sneak out with my brother. When night fell, while everybody was asleep including our parents, we went through the broken fence and walked to downtown Bangkok. Fortunately, we met a nice man. He gave us a good job, and we earned money for buying food and water. We came back to our camp. We did it twice but on the third time, the guards caught us and gave us a severe punishment. We couldn’t sneak out for a long time because of wounds from whips and sticks. My mom rubbed some herbal mix that she picked from the forest and dressed it on the wounds. She cried and cried and felt our pains.
We had stayed in the camp for a year and a half. On Jan 31, 1977, a big ship took us to the U.S. I touched the U.S land on February 02, 1977. Finally, we felt free and safe. It felt truly like heaven after all that we have gone through. Our sponsor family gave us the small room in their house. Although that had minimum furniture, it was enough for us at that time. That night, I had the most peaceful, deep sleep in my entire life because I was finally safe.”
Mr. Viet was silent with a long puff of smoke. He completed our conversation, “I have dreamed and my dreams do come true. I have tried to protect my beloved family and to fight for my survival. I have admitted that the way to heaven always has a lot of arduousness. You and I, we want to enter to heavens, we must try day by day.”

