---
layout: post
title: "The Reckless Mother"
subtitle:
excerpt: ""
image: "/img/Bàn tay che trời.jpeg"
show-avatar: true
category: Tản mạn
tags: ["Tản mạn một thoáng nhìn"]
comments: true
googlefonts: ["Share+Tech+Mono"]
---

“A baby cries in the cradle. He is hungry but his mom does not know how to feed him although she has milk in her breast. She is confused when she looks at the baby, not knowing what to do with this new infant.”
Thy was 8 years old when her mother passed away by an accident. Her father died 5 years earlier. She didn’t know how serious her situation was and how difficult life can be on the edge of the future. She was innocent and wanders at corners of markets. People gave her food and clothing. She stayed alive by the kindness of every people in the suburban of Ha Noi. When night came, she returned to the tattered tent by the Red River. The tent’s wall was made of bamboo and the roof by plastic canvas. The tent was cool in the winter and hot in the summer but this refuge made Thy felts safe. She usually went to Dong Xuan Market and Long Bien Market, she went from market to market, smiling and dancing while people stare and tease at her. Her perception of life was simple. She laughed when people love her and gave her food. She cries when gets turned down. Sometimes she had a large smile for no particular reason.
One day, Thy went around the suburban and came back to her tent the same way as usual. However, when she fell in a depth sleep, a bad guy came and raped her in her tent. She didn’t know what was going on and did not imagine how serious it could be. She continued her life as if nothing had happened although her abdomen was bigger day after day. Like all the pregnancy, she felt the changing in her body, but she was aware of the new baby that was carrying and dif nothing to prepare for it. Neighbors gave her a lot of things which she didn’t know how to use them. Ms. Hoa gave her a cradle for the baby but she thought that was a toy so she played with it as a chair. At the time, she used to as a box and trapped animals in for hours. She pretended as if she is a superwoman who saved and rescued them. At the seventh month of the pregnancy, neighbors told her a lot about a baby, so she imagined that there is a mystery which will happen at once. She played with dolls which someone gave her for the baby. She supposed that dolls are similar to her baby and she held dolls on her arm. While carried the dolls and sang songs, she was trained to be mother whenever she didn’t know.
On the ninth month, when Thy walked along the Long Bien Market, she fell down next to the sidewalk and the amniotic fluid went out. She was cared and cried out. Her face was pale while laying down on the grass. She didn’t know what happened but everyone knew. They took her to the clinic and helped her deliver a baby boy. Everyone said that “when people are in poverty, it is easy to help one another”. Even though Ha Noi was filled with wealthy people, Thy was once again surrounded by struggling neighbors. They donated money and much of clothes for the baby. They treat the baby as an angel coming to the shabby tent and to the poor neighborhood. They named the baby and called him Cu Tit.
Cu Tit cried in the cradle. He was hungry but his mom doesn’t know how to feed him although she has milk in her breast. She ran around the cradle and laughs. She danced because of the baby’s voice makes her excited. She ran around and around the cradle and jumps. She knew that something was wrong with the baby, but she doesn’t know how to solve this problem. She was confused as of what to do. The baby continued to cry. His hands and his feet were kicking in all directions. He wants someone can hold him because of his hungry. Thy holds him up and put him down. She was able to momentarily calm him down. After a short time, the baby cried and cried again. Mrs. Thanh, the old and poor woman ran quickly from the next tent to Thy’s tent. She held Cu Tit on her arm and coaxed him. She showed Thy how to feed the baby by her breast and nurse him. Thy experienced happiness when she feeds her baby. Cu Tit no longer cried. He smiled and looked at his mommy’s face. It gave Thy a peculiar feeling. Thy’s feeling was undescribable but she knew it was very special. She sat on the tent floor and nurse her son until he has fallen asleep.
Cu Tit grew up day by day. People in the neighborhood love him. They gave Cu Tit everything they had to help him grew up like the other children in the suburban. They wanted to change his fate and gave him an education because his mother did not know how to teach him. When he was 4 years old, they sent him to nursery school. He learned at school with all other children. However, their parents didn’t allow their children to make friend with him. They worried that their children could be influenced by him and his reckless mom. Everyone avoided him, only his teachers gave him milk and food. Only his teachers cared for his well being. Every day, Thy took her son to the Hoa Hong Nursery School and picked him up. Although she cannot control herself, she knew how to give her son the attention and love he needs. She gave him a big hug, tweaked his chin and kisses his checks many times before letting him went to school. Mother and son walked on the paved road. Cu Tit trotted ahead and his mom followed. He enjoyed everything on the way. He was curious about things around him and asked his mom many questions. She only giggled and scratched her head, then swiftly walked along with his footprints. She was filled with happiness with her offspring. One day, he came back from class, nobody knew why, but he asked his mother, “Where is the dad? My friends have their father but I don’t. Who is my daddy, mama?” Thy looked at her child but she didn’t have the answer, only because she does not know the man who raped her, but also because she has no meaning what the father is. She hesitated for a moment and put her hands on her son’s shoulder. She tried to tell him something that herself has no idea.
When Cu Tit was 13 years old. He knew he had a dad, but he never experienced the comfort of being held by his dad. He hoped to meet his dad one day. However, it seems like an endless wait. He lived with his mother under the old tent. He now had to take care of himself and his mom. He no longer can afford to go to school. Nobody granted enough money for his education and either did the government. He worked on the landfills to collect recycle trash and sold them to make money for living. Day after day, he left his house early after a quick breakfast with a half of bread that he shared with his mom. She always laughs and enjoys her meal excitedly. She was happy with whatever she had and followed her son wherever he went.
Cu Tit has never experienced blowing candles on a birthday cake. Thy didn’t remember when his birthday was. When Cu Tit studied in Nursery School, he heard about birthday. It is special day when someone comes to the life. On that day, every body would give gifts and congratulations to the birthday person. He decided his birthday will be Jan 01. He argued that the beginning of year is the beginning of his life. It is Tet holiday and all people will celebrate on that day. He is the gift of God given to his mother and to the world. Cake and candles were beyond his reach and he dared not to wish for such luxirious birthday. One New Year, his mom remembered it as her son’s birthday. She didn’t have money or any valuable thing for a gift. During Tet, when all people enjoyed their party with family, Thy went to the forest not for a hiking but to find some guava, apple, which her son likes in the most. She went deeply into the forest to find guava and some other kinds of fruit. She wanted to show her love to his son. She passed large and dangerous streams. Although there were many things on the way that distracted her, she only focused on finding the gift for her beloved son. That day, Cu Tit didn’t know where she went, he only thinked his mom played somewhere closeby any other days. He went out to enjoy his free day for Tet holiday because nobody throws out trash. According Vietnamese tradition, people do not throw garbage out on three days of Tet, because they believe that throwing things out in the early days of year is similar to throwing out their fortune throughout the year. Thy still meanwhile, in the deep forest. She found a big guava tree and climbed up to pick some. She wanted to choose the biggest fruit and tried to reach out to the farthest branches. Not antipating the danger, she fell down and broke her arm. Thy was linconcious for a while. Once awake, she picked up the gauvas with her left arm. She managed to hold on to these precious fruit with one hand and supported her broken right arm and sluggishly got herself back to home. At time, fruit was dropped and she had to turn back and bend down, the pain from her factured bone and torned bloody skin on her hand seem unbearable. 
Upon entering the house, Thy showed her gift to the son. He gazed at his mom for a long time and was speechless at the sight of his mom’s arm. Thy handed the fruit while stammering “birthday gift, birthday gift”. Cu Tit filled happiness because it was the first birthday gift in his life. He cried. The first time he cried although nobody hit him. He is a stubborn person and did not cry even when got hit by someone. Now, standing infront of his mom, he cannot hold back his tear for the joy of happiness was interwining with pain he feels in his mom’s arm. He cried his deepest cried while holding on his mother’s broken arm. He took his mom to the tent and helped her to fix the wound. He took a couple of wood and tied them on the mother’s broken arm. It started raining and he looked out the tent door and wondered about his future family. He was glarcing at his mom and pondering up on life and the injustic that it brang to him. He turned his eyes and looked at the falling raindrops on the porch.
Mục Đồng Nguyễn
