---
layout: post
title: "The Symbol of Love"
subtitle:
excerpt: ""
image: "/img/Bàn tay che trời.jpeg"
show-avatar: true
category: Tản mạn
tags: ["Tản mạn một thoáng nhìn"]
comments: true
googlefonts: ["Share+Tech+Mono"]
---

Many years ago in a very far country, there was a King named Smith who was successful in managing his country and everybody respected him because of his kindness and his virtues. Traditionally, Kings always has many wives, but Smith had only one, her name was Elena. He loved her very much, so he asked himself, “What can I make for my wife, and everyone to that my love is immortal and will never change.” He wondered for many days and nights, and one day, he decided to seek advise from the Prime Minister, a wise man and his best friend from childhood. He said to him, “My friend, I really love my wife, our Queen, I want to do something special to exemplify my love for her and to remind myself of this everlasting love. Can you help me?” The King’s request troubled the Prime Minister, so he said. “My Lord and friend, I think I am not smart enough for answering your request. Can you call a conference to the main ministers that perhaps will give you some good suggestions?” The Lord agreed with the Prime Minister and summoned all his staff to undertake this endeavour. He asked them in the same way he asked the Prime Minister, “My dearest staff, I really love my wife, our Queen, I want to do something special to exemplify my love for her and to remind myself of this everlasting love. Can you help me?” Everyone started discussing King’s order for a long time. The palace quickly rumbled with noise. From the throne, King Smith heard the conversation with many valuable suggestions. After a while, the King Smith was disappointed because it seems that no one had the answer for his question. Suddenly, an elderly man with gray hair and long beard rose up and said, “My Lord, your love for your wife, our Queen, is rare. It is not only wonderful, but also is a good example for others. So, I think you could do something like a symbol of your love. So anytime you look at it, it reminds yourself about your love.” The King felt better and stood up from his royal chair. He exclaimed the old man, “You have a great idea, my trusted staff, but specifically what will I do to make your idea a reality, and to be a symbol for my love?” The old man was silent because he had no further ideas. Momentarily, in the crowd appeared a strong man. He was a greatest General in the country. He stood up and said, “My Lord, the love you give to your wife is indestructible and powerful. Therefore, you should make a sword as a symbol of your love. By my sword, I conquered a lot of land and defeated many nations to extending our country day by day. So, what is better than a sword in your case?” The King replied, “O my loyal general and my good friend, I cannot choose the sword is a symbol of love. The sword is a symbol of strength and war, so it could not be symbolic of my love. My love will never brings hurt nor blood to our lovely people especially my wife, whom I love the most.” And The King turned around and asked all of them. “Do you have some more suggestions?” Everyone was quiet. It was a heavy situation in the house of the King. 

Lord lets them go and came back to his room. He closed the door and skipped his dinner. He went out and walked around the back yard. He had a tired appearance and made long steps through the walk side and around the lake in the middle of the yard. 

Unconsciously, he picked up a stone. He held it in his hand for a few minutes, and threw it in the lake. In the dark night and under the moonlight, he saw something moved on the surface of the royal lake. Silver and twinkling cycles with the same target, the concentric circles flowered when the stone touched the surface of water. He looked at the site for a long time and realized that the cycles moved out and not stopped until they were broken by the lake sides. He jumped in happiness and clapped his hands. Nobody could understand, but he himself knew the answer to his question. 
In very early morning of the next day, he called all his staff and said to them. “I just thought I will make a cycle as a symbol of my love. A cycle has no start and no end. It looks like my love for my wife has no end until I pass away. So I want all of you think about what material I should choose to make this symbol, what is your option?” The crowd talk and asked each other. The Prime Minister stood up and said. “My Lord, I think you discovered the answer about the symbol of love when you saw the ripples on the surface of water. So why don’t we make the cycle by water.” Everybody agreed with his opinion, but the King didn’t and said in reply. “No, I don’t think the symbol of love should be made of water. Do you see water? It doesn’t have any figure. It has the shape of which is poured. My love cannot change depending on the environment or situation like water. My love is lasting and everlasting.” Other General said, “It should be made of metal as iron. With iron, we make weapons to protect our country and our families; with iron, we also make furniture to rise our children and look after ourselves.” Everybody agreed with his opinion, but the Lord didn’t. The King said, “Oh my good and clever staff, I don’t think as you because iron gets corroded by oxygen and by time. My love cannot be corroded by time or anything else.” In this time, the Manager of the country stood up and said, “My Lord, I think the symbol of love should be made by the most expensive and precious metal. Copper is too cheap, and silver is too weak. I think only gold is the best choice for the material of the symbol of love.” The King stood up and granted the Manager a big reward because of his clever answer. 

The King walked around his royal chair and kept his hands locks together on his back. He turned to his staff and said, “We would make a cycle in gold to be a symbol of my love, but where I should put it so every time I see it remind myself about the love I have for my wife.” Everyone started a discussion. A young man stood up and said, “My Lord, you should put it next to your mirror, so everyday you can see it when you see yourself in the mirror.” The King said the answer, “No, I don’t think so, I cannot have love when I only look at myself. Love asks to look out ourselves and look for and see the feeling of our lover.” An other said, “My Lord, it could be put around our neck so we can bring it everywhere we go”. Everyone agreed with this opinion, but the Lord didn’t and replied, “I don’t think so, my friend, our neck is hidden by our checks and our chin, so we can’t see the cycle all the time and you could lose it.” Of this time, the eldest one in the room stood up and said, “My venerable Lord, in my opinion, I think you should wear it on your hand and exactly in the fourth finger. The weakest finger in the left hand. When you wear it on our finger, you can see it every time you want to. It should be on the left hand because the right hand is the preferred hand, we use the right hand for working and playing, fighting and destroying, so love can’t be broken by actions; and put it on the weakest finger means our love is very easy to be hurt so we have to protect all the time.” 

The King stood up from his royal chair and said. “Truely, it is the meaning I see when I think about the symbol of love.” The King gave the oldest man a big reward, and turned back to the Prime Minister and said, “Now I am certain that I could make a symbol to represent my love not only for me but also for everyone. It will be called The Ring of love. That cycle has no start and no end; it will be made of gold, a metal can’t be corroded by time or anything else; It will be wore on the fourth finger, the weakest finger in the left hand to remind us have to protect our love day after day.”  The King made the order for his staff to make a couple of rings, one for him and the other for his wife, the Queen. Since then, when a man and a woman get married, they make or buy a couple of rings as a symbol of their love and help others know that they belong to someone. 

About the author

A man who was alone in his room because of insomnia when a bad dream woke up him at the midnight. He cannot fall asleep again although he tried the Rosary by his Rosary ring, so he was lying on his bed, he wrote this story by his phone. The legend of the ring which he wears everyday, and never removes except Rosary times. He relate his ring to the wedding ring of many people in the world and think about love not only for him but also for others. Love has no start nor end like a cycle. We could not find the starting or ending point of it. This story took him 3 hours from 1 am to 4 am, April 30, 2019. This is the first story he writes in English, so it could have many errors and poor ideas. Please give him comments to help him in his development. 

Thank you very much.  

Mục Đồng Nguyễn


